---
id: 01-01
title: "Unit 1 Chapter 1: Prerequisites"
sidebar_label: "Chapter 1: Prerequisites"
---

## Requirements
* You MUST use a 64-bit host OS.  Ruby on Racetracks no longer supports the use of 32-bit systems.
* This tutorial assumes that you are using MX Linux, a Linux distro based on Debian Stable.  If you're using another distro based on Debian Stable or Debian Stable itself, the very same automated Docker installation tool that works in MX Linux will work in your system as well.
* Docker provides support for other Linux distros as well.  If your setup is based on CentOS, Fedora, Ubuntu, or Raspbian, you're covered by Docker, but the automated Docker installation tool in this tutorial won't work for you.
* If you're using a Linux distro that Docker doesn't support, you're on your own, ESPECIALLY if your distro doesn't support Docker.  If you don't want to go to the effort of figuring out how to install Docker in your Puppy Linux or Gentoo Linux setup, you should use VirtualBox to install a Linux virtual machine.
* Docker supports MacOS, but the automated Docker installation tool in this tutorial won't work for you.  However, Docker may be slow in MacOS.  If that's the case, you should use VirtualBox to isntall a Linux virtual machine.
* If you have Windows, you MUST use VirtualBox to install a Linux virtual machine.  (While Docker supports Windows, this tutorial does not.)

## VirtualBox
* To install a Linux virtual machine, go to the [VirtualBox Tutorial](https://www.virtualboxtutorial.com/).
* The Linux virtual machine is required if you use Windows or a Linux distro not supported by Docker.
* If you are using MacOS or a Linux setup that Docker supports but that this tutorial does not, the Linux virtual machine is recommended if you want an easiest possible installation process.

## What's wrong with using Docker for Windows?
The Windows terminal shell is completely different from that of Linux and MacOS.  I rely heavily on Bash scripts and commands when working on software projects.  Using a Linux virtual machine bails you out of having to figure out the Windows way of doing things.  (No, I never learned how to get the cygwin program to work properly.)

## Why don't you use Ubuntu?
* I don't like the GNOME 3 interface.
* The Ubuntu base has a high overhead, which means that it requires far more memory, processor speed, and other resources than MX Linux and other Debian-based distros that bypass the Ubuntu base. This high overhead is especially significant if your computer is more than a few years old, or if you're relying on a virtual machine.
