---
id: 01-04
title: "Unit 1 Chapter 4: Linux Docker Images"
sidebar_label: "Chapter 4: Linux Docker Images"
---

In this chapter, you will try out various Linux distros through Docker images.

## Topics Covered
* Basic Docker commands

## List of Docker Containers and Images
* At the end of the previous chapter, you deleted all containers and images.
* Enter the command `docker ps -a` to show all of the Docker containers currently in your system.  Of course, there will be none, and the screen output will be the following:
```
CONTAINER ID        IMAGE               COMMAND             CREATED             STATUS              PORTS               NAMES
```
* Enter the command `docker images -a` to show all of the Docker images currently in your system.  Again, there will be none, and the screen output will be the following:
```
REPOSITORY          TAG                 IMAGE ID            CREATED             SIZE
```

## Debian Linux Image
* Enter the command `docker run debian`.
* The screen output should look something like this:
```
Unable to find image 'debian:latest' locally
latest: Pulling from library/debian
e9afc4f90ab0: Pull complete 
Digest: sha256:46d659005ca1151087efa997f1039ae45a7bf7a2cbbe2d17d3dcbda632a3ee9a
Status: Downloaded newer image for debian:latest
```
* Enter the command `docker run -it debian bash`.  This starts up a Bash shell within the Debian Linux Docker container.
* Enter the command `whoami`.  The output will show that you're the root user.  Please note that most Docker images have only a root user and no regular user.
* Enter the command `cat /etc/os-release`.  The output will show that you're in Debian Linux.
* Enter the command `apt-get update`.  This updates the software package list within your Docker container's Debian environment.
* Enter the command `apt-get upgrade -y`.  This updates all the software within your Docker container's Debian environment.
* Enter the command `exit` to return to your host system.

## Ubuntu Linux Docker Image
* Enter the command `docker run ubuntu`.
* The screen output should look something like this:
```
Unable to find image 'ubuntu:latest' locally
latest: Pulling from library/ubuntu
d51af753c3d3: Pull complete 
fc878cd0a91c: Pull complete 
6154df8ff988: Pull complete 
fee5db0ff82f: Pull complete 
Digest: sha256:747d2dbbaaee995098c9792d99bd333c6783ce56150d1b11e333bbceed5c54d7
Status: Downloaded newer image for ubuntu:latest
```
* Enter the command `docker run -it ubuntu bash`.  This starts up a Bash shell within the Ubuntu Linux Docker container.
* Enter the command `whoami`.  The output will show that you're the root user.
* Enter the command `cat /etc/os-release`.  The output will show that you're in Ubuntu Linux.
* Enter the command `apt-get update`.  This updates the software package list within your Docker container's Ubuntu environment.
* Enter the command `apt-get upgrade -y`.  This updates all the software within your Docker container's Ubuntu environment.
* Enter the command `exit` to return to your host system.

## Alpine Linux Docker Image
* Enter the command `docker run alpine`.
* The screen output should look something like this:
```
Unable to find image 'alpine:latest' locally
latest: Pulling from library/alpine
df20fa9351a1: Pull complete 
Digest: sha256:185518070891758909c9f839cf4ca393ee977ac378609f700f60a771a2dfe321
Status: Downloaded newer image for alpine:latest
```
* Enter the command `docker run -it alpine sh`.  This starts up a shell within the Alpine Linux Docker container.
* Enter the command `whoami`.  The output will show that you're the root user.
* Enter the command `cat /etc/os-release`.  The output will show that you're in Alpine Linux.
* Enter the command `apk update`.  This updates the software package list within your Docker container's Alpine environment.
* Enter the command `apk upgrade`.  This updates all the software within your Docker container's Alpine environment.
* Enter the command `exit` to return to your host system.

## ArchLinux Docker Image
* Enter the command `docker run archlinux`.
* The screen output should look something like this:
```
Unable to find image 'archlinux:latest' locally
latest: Pulling from library/archlinux
238e7cef5675: Pull complete 
231c6d24d179: Pull complete 
1c2b33cecfa4: Pull complete 
9e0e057fb0da: Pull complete 
3b9ccf3aa70b: Pull complete 
508465e7010b: Pull complete 
Digest: sha256:a5bbbcdbb9bbef3b5db3ec97c7bf659162904576bdd2dd7165ffc4fbe812088e
Status: Downloaded newer image for archlinux:latest
```
* Enter the command `docker run -it archlinux bash`.  This starts up a shell within the Arch Linux Docker container.
* Enter the command `whoami`.  The output will show that you're the root user.
* Enter the command `cat /etc/os-release`.  The output will show that you're in Arch Linux.
* Enter the command `pacman -Sy`.  This updates the software package list within your Docker container's Arch Linux environment.
* Enter the command `pacman -Syu`.  When prompted, enter "y" to proceed with upgrading all the software within your Docker container's Arch Linux environment.
* Enter the command `exit` to return to your host system.

## Deleting Docker Containers
* To view the list of Docker containers, enter the command `docker ps -a`.
* To delete all of these Docker containers, enter the following commands:
```
for i in $(docker ps -a -q)
do
  docker kill $i; wait;
  docker rm -f $i; wait;
done;
```
* To view the list of Docker containers, enter the command `docker ps -a`.  This list should now be empty.

## Deleting Docker images
* To view the list of Docker images, enter the command `docker images -a`.
* To delete all of these Docker images, enter the following commands:
```
for i in $(docker images -a -q)
do
  docker kill $i; wait;
  docker rmi -f $i; wait;
done;
```
